I used to be good at writing letters. Sadly, it is not a skill I have
been honing much over the years though. If there's ever an art
destined to be lost, then it must be the one that involves sitting
quietly with pen and paper, shutting out. the world around you,
intently thinking of someone, finding the words that'll make them
smile, feel, dream.

And yet there is an evident magic to it. When you can send messages
across oceans in less than seconds, why would you feel different about
a letter in the post?  Maybe it's the thrill of an unexpected
surprise, childlike, literally "unadulterated". Maybe it's the twinge
you feel in your heart at the sight of something that decidedly
belongs to the past, like an old family photograph with yellowed
corners. I suspect there's a deeper reason to it: the simple physical
existence of the words, the voice you hear, the places you go to when
reading them. It's a longing for physical touch, for intimacy, for the
warmth of days gone... Perhaps I can summon a bit of that magic
myself.

I told you how a couple of years ago I took off and went
country-hopping in Central America, ending with a few days in
Guatemala, not knowing what to do with myself, just waiting for my
next flight to Brazil and joining Arnaud there. I now remember my time
there as, I imagine, we remember most of our faraway travels, vivid
and thrilling, everything new and strange. I'll reminisce
nostalgically about it: jumping out of cliffs in clear, blue-sky,
water with that australian couple I had met in the morning, drinking
with this strange middle-aged frenchwoman intent on telling me all
about her life, spending hours at a cafe in front of the lake
finishing that Franzen novel that was weighing down my bag. Which is
funny, since, if I think back honestly, while I was actually there I
did not fell "happy".  I remember being restless, griping about the
stink and the car horns, deciding to fill my last day with a climb of
the Volcano above Antigua and not even pausing at the top to
appreciate the view.  It's only in my hastily taken pictures now that
I can see how beautiful the view was...

Perhaps in the future I will feel similarly about this last summer in
London. I'll remember cycling home in Hyde Park, the light of a summer
day upon, how beautiful the city is. I'll have forgotten that even while
cycling I was preoccupied with thoughts of you.
I'll think of my morning commute and the books I was
reading and not anymore about how much I hated myself every time the
bus passed Harrowby street, because I couldn't help looking out the
window, hoping you'd be there somewhere in the crowd, and that I'd run
out and catch you. I'll remember drinks around Paddington Basin with
good friends, rather than how all the time there I was thinking of
when we had dinner together before I walked you home.

I wonder, sometimes, whether it is a perversity peculiar to my own
mind or just the common lot of humanity to experience happiness only in
retrospect. I have of course considered the theory that I am an idiot
who fails to appreciate anything when he actually has it and only
loves what he's lost. Perhaps there is nostalgia to blame, since it
just ends up obliterating the past. But I think these summer days in
London will feel the same to me as my last days in Guatemala. A fresh
heartbreak, is in a sense, like being in a foreign country; everything
feels different, raw. When you're that unhappy, any glimmer of
consolation or beauty feels like running into and old friend abroad,
or seeing through the smog at the top of a volcano. Maybe we
mistakenly think we mistakenly think we want "happiness", which we
tend to picture in very vague terms, when what we really want is the
roughed, harder edged intensity of experience.

We all have, I hope, a handful of these moments, the ones we only take
out to treasure rarely, when we look up from our lives and we think "I
was happy there".  I felt that way on more than a few occasions with
you although I am careful not to paint it for something it hasn't.
But I'm starting to think that this kind of intense emotion is
heartbreakingly ephemeral; as soon as you notice it you dispel it,
like blocking yourself from remembering the name of an actor or a film
by trying too hard to retrieve it.

I suspect there is something misguided and self-defeating about any
deliberate attempt to achieve happiness. Perhaps the reason we so
often experience it only in hindsight, and that chasing it is such a
fool's errand, is that it isn't a goal in itself but only an
aftereffect. In this respect, it reminds me of a physics phenomenon I
came across in my studies, and whose poetry I didn't quite grasp as
the time.  Backyard astronomers will tell you that, in order to pick
out a very faint star, you have to let your gaze drift casually to the
space just near it; if you look directly at it, it vanishes.  And what
if, in our real lives, the only stars we ever see are not the real
"stars", happening in the present but always only the light of the
untouchable past.

And as I finish these words, I suddenly feel embarrassed and I want to
tear it all up.  I want to save myself the stupidity of it. Because I realise
that all I wanted to say - and don't ask my why, because I don't fucking know
why - is that I still think of you, and I miss you.
